Update send a transaction page lisk docs (#1698)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/integrate-blockchain/create-send-transactions.adoc

= How to create a transaction
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 3
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:sdk_docs: v6@lisk-sdk::
:docs_core: v4@lisk-core::
// :v_sdk: v6.0.0 (beta)

:url_sdk_client: lisk-sdk::references/lisk-elements/client.adoc
:url_integrate_tx_offline: integrate-blockchain/create-tx-offline.adoc
:url_protocol_txs: understand-blockchain/lisk-protocol/transactions.adoc#transaction-properties
//:url_sdk_cli: v6@lisk-sdk::client-cli.adoc
//:url_sdk_httpapi: lisk-sdk::plugins/http-api-plugin.adoc
//:url_core_cli: lisk-core::reference/cli.adoc
//:url_transaction_send: integrate-blockchain/integrate-UI/faucet-transfer.adoc#transfer-tokens
:url_integrate_decoding: integrate-blockchain/encode-decode.adoc
:url_api_node_rpc: api/lisk-node-rpc.adoc
:url_api_service_http: api/lisk-service-http.adoc
:url_api_service_rpc: api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc
:url_migration_guide: {sdk_docs}references/migration.adoc
:url_protocol_transactions: understand-blockchain/lisk-protocol/transactions.adoc#types
:url_modules: {sdk_docs}modules/index.adoc
:url_api_client: understand-blockchain/sdk/rpc.adoc#the-api-client

> This guide describes different methods of creating transactions to Lisk nodes.

Author: Good point...This PR will be merged into our latest version of the docs which is currently in beta, and only available on staging at the moment. So I will add this in, but comment it out with a "TODO:" note, to uncomment it when SDK v.6 is ready 👍

//TODO: Update the default transactions

> // == Default transactions

Author: Yes, I think you are right, they are commented out at the moment. 👍

The steps are applicable for all the applications developed with the Lisk SDK and Lisk Core.
// [v6](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lisk-sdk/v/latest), including the Lisk Core.

//TODO: Update the default transactions
// == Default transactions

// The default modules already come with a set of xref:{url_protocol_transactions}[default transactions] out of the box, which can be sent to the blockchain application without writing any custom code.

// Each transaction type is defined in a module.
// More information regarding the different modules listed below can be found here on the xref:{url_module}[modules overview] page.

// * The Token module
// * The PoS module
// * The Interoperability module
// * The Auth module
// * The Legacy module

//TODO: Update the modules overview page to add the other modules, and links to the respective pages when they are completed, .eg. auth, interop, legacy modules.

== Transaction formats

A transaction can be represented in different formats.
It should be noted that in the Lisk SDK v6, the `moduleID`, `assetID`, and `asset` properties have been replaced with the `module` (name), `command` (name), and `params` respectively.

> Further details can be found in the xref:{url_migration_guide}[SDK migration guide].

Reviewer: Could you please share the details specified within the SDK migration guide?
The contents will decide if we need to specify this here.

Author: Discussed offline and now cleared 👍

Each transaction type is defined in a module.
For more information about the different modules and their transaction assets, check out the respective module references:

.Transactions of the following:

* The Token module

> * The PoS module

Author: Good point..However, the other modules have yet to be added to the docs as they have not yet been completed, so I have slightly restructured this paragraph to link to the modules overview page, and added in a 'TODO' comment to add the new modules in at a later date, once the respective module pages have been written.

This is the hex string representation of the Buffer data.

> It is sometimes used as an input or output format in the CLI when sending or creating transactions via the CLI (see xref:{url_sdk_cli}[] and xref:{url_core_cli}[Lisk core CLI]).

Author: Sure, we can remove the CLI links as they are provided later in this page 👍

  signatures: [
    <Buffer 96 0a 67 e3 04 7d bc 1b d2 e2 d1 30 6d 47 36 74 86 7e b8 1f df 90 ec 65 f5 75 9c 1a 1e c4 07 f5 ba f9 87 1c a7 63 75 55 7c 7b 23 e2 25 ae 60 cd da 65 ... 14 more bytes>
  ],
  id: <Buffer 08 de 6d b3 66 28 b1 f3 a7 17 5b 1b 88 9f 66 1f 9f 18 4a fa 3d f4 ee b0 15 69 8c 4a c2 de 0d 38>
}
----

=== JSON compatible object

A representation of the decoded transaction in a JSON compatible format.

For example, this is used for displaying the details of a transaction in the UI to the user.

[source,js]
----
{
  module: 'token',
  command: 'transfer',
  fee: '1000000',
  params: {
    tokenID: '0400000000000000',
    amount: '800000000',
    recipientAddress: 'lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj',
    data: 'Happy birthday!'
  },
  nonce: '0',
  senderPublicKey: '3972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c',
  signatures: [
    '960a67e3047dbc1bd2e2d1306d473674867eb81fdf90ec65f5759c1a1ec407f5baf9871ca76375557c7b23e225ae60cdda65fdce385bae076131ad5f7e39df0b'
  ],
  id: '08de6db36628b1f3a7175b1b889f661f9f184afa3df4eeb015698c4ac2de0d38'
}
----

== How to create and sign a transaction

[TIP]
====

> For convenience, it is recommended to use the API client or the CLI to communicate to a node for creating transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For convenience, it is recommended to use the API client or the CLI to communicate to a node for creating and signing transactions.
```

[source,js]
----
{
	module: 'token',
	command: 'transfer',
	fee: '1000000',
	params: {
		tokenID: '0400000000000000',
		amount: '800000000',
		recipientAddress: 'lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj',
		data: 'Happy birthday!'
	},
	nonce: '0',
	senderPublicKey: '3972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c',
	signatures: [
		'960a67e3047dbc1bd2e2d1306d473674867eb81fdf90ec65f5759c1a1ec407f5baf9871ca76375557c7b23e225ae60cdda65fdce385bae076131ad5f7e39df0b'
	],

> 	id: '08de6db36628b1f3a7175b1b889f661f9f184afa3df4eeb015698c4ac2de0d38'

Reviewer 2: Please improve the indentation.

> [source,js]

Author: Done 👍

> ----

Author: Good point..now done 👍

> Any running node can be used to create a sendable transaction object, see xref:{url_sdk_cli}[] and Lisk Core CLI.

Author: Done 👍

.Transaction object
[source, js]
----
Signed transaction object: {
module: 'token',
command: 'transfer',
fee: '1000000',
params: {
    tokenID: '0400000000000000',
    amount: '800000000',
    recipientAddress: 'lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj',
    data: 'Happy birthday!'
},
nonce: '0',
senderPublicKey: '3972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c',
signatures: [
    '960a67e3047dbc1bd2e2d1306d473674867eb81fdf90ec65f5759c1a1ec407f5baf9871ca76375557c7b23e225ae60cdda65fdce385bae076131ad5f7e39df0b'
],
id: '08de6db36628b1f3a7175b1b889f661f9f184afa3df4eeb015698c4ac2de0d38'
}
----
====

==== via IPC

Firstly, ensure that IPC is enabled.
This can be achieved by adding the IPC configuration option to your Lisk node's configuration file as shown below:

[source,json]
----
{
  "ipc": {
    "enabled": true,
    "path": "/path/to/ipc/socket"
  }
}

----

> It will be necessary to replace the `/path/to/ipc/socket` in the snippet above with the path to your IPC socket file.

Reviewer: L249-339 (until before the `=== via CLI` section) can be removed.

Then connect to the Websocket endpoint using the desired library.
A transaction can now be created, which must contain all the necessary information such as the recipient address, amount, and fee.
An example using the `socket.io-client` library can be seen in the snippet below:

[source,js]
----
const io = require('socket.io-client');
const { APIClient } = require('@liskhq/lisk-api-client');
const { Transaction } = require('@liskhq/lisk-client');

const client = new APIClient(['https://my-lisk-node.com']);

const tx = new Transaction({
  moduleID: 2,
  assetID: 0,
  fee: '10000000',
  nonce: '1',
  senderPublicKey: 'sender-public-key',
  asset: {
    recipientAddress: 'lsk3wzmwGK3qY8JtYkZdRopDnNfVyj8PbW',
    amount: '100000000',
  },
});

const socket = io('https://my-lisk-node.com/ws');

socket.on('connect', () => {
  console.log('Connected to WebSocket');

  socket.emit('subscribe', 'transactions');

  socket.emit('transaction:create', tx.toJSON(), response => {
    console.log(response);
    socket.disconnect();
  });
});

socket.on('disconnect', () => {
  console.log('Disconnected from WebSocket');
});
----

=== via CLI

> Any running node can be used to create a sendable transaction object.
> // see xref:{url_sdk_cli}[Application CLI] and xref:{url_core_cli}[Lisk Core CLI].
> //TODO: Add in above links when SDKv6 and Core docsv4 are released
> An example for creating and sending a transfer transaction with the Lisk Core CLI is displayed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application CLI can be used to create a sendable transaction object to any running node. An example for creating and sending a transfer transaction with the Lisk Core CLI is displayed below:
// see xref:{url_sdk_cli}[Application CLI] and xref:{url_core_cli}[Lisk Core CLI].
//TODO: Add in above links when SDKv6 and Core docsv4 are released
```

> NOTE: If you are planning to run the same transaction through a sidechain client, then you can use nearly the same CLI commands as in the general Lisk CLI.
> Just replace `lisk-core` with `./bin/run` in that case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When planning to run the same transaction through a sidechain client, the same CLI commands as in the general Lisk CLI. Just replace `lisk-core` with the application's CLI tool or use `./bin/run` building the application from the source code.
```

.Transaction object
[source, js]
----
Signed transaction object: {
module: 'token',
command: 'transfer',
fee: '1000000',
params: {
    tokenID: '0400000000000000',
    amount: '800000000',
    recipientAddress: 'lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj',
    data: 'Happy birthday!'
},
nonce: '0',
senderPublicKey: '3972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c',
signatures: [
    '960a67e3047dbc1bd2e2d1306d473674867eb81fdf90ec65f5759c1a1ec407f5baf9871ca76375557c7b23e225ae60cdda65fdce385bae076131ad5f7e39df0b'
],
id: '08de6db36628b1f3a7175b1b889f661f9f184afa3df4eeb015698c4ac2de0d38'
}
----
====

==== Enabling IPC, WebSocket, and HTTP APIs

There are two ways to expose the node APIs via IPC, WS, and HTTP.

> 1.Use the following command like flags when starting the application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the following command line flags when starting the application:
```

  - `--api-ipc`: Enable API over IPC
  - `--api-ws`: Enable API over WS
  - `--api-http`: Enable API over HTTP
  - `--api-host=127.0.0.1`: IP over which the API is exposed. Use `0.0.0.0` to expose the API on all available ethernet IP instances
  - `--api-port=7887`: Port on which the API is exposed

> 2.This can also be achieved by adding the RPC configuration option to your Lisk node's configuration file as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. This can also be achieved by adding the RPC configuration option to your Lisk node's configuration file as shown below.
```

To enforce the config changes `--overwrite-config` flag must be passed when starting the application.

> To supply a custom file use the `--config=</path/to/custom/config>` flag:

Reviewer: The example config changes as suggested [here](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-docs/pull/1698#discussion_r1135365533) seem to be missing below.

```suggestion
To supply a custom file use the `--config=</path/to/custom/config>` flag:

[source,jsonc]
----
{
  "rpc": {
    "modes": ["ipc", "ws", "http"], // Only specify the modes you need to enable
    "port": 7887,
    "host": "127.0.0.1" // Use `0.0.0.0` to expose them on all available ethernet IP instances
  },
}
----
```

> NOTE: Please note that when WS is enabled, the API can be accessed via the `/rpc-ws` path.
> In addition, when HTTP is enabled the API can be accessed via the `/rpc` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Please note that when the WS mode is enabled, the API can be accessed via the `/rpc-ws` path.
And, when the HTTP mode is enabled the API can be accessed via the `/rpc` path.
```

=== via CLI

The application CLI can be used to create a sendable transaction object to any running node. An example for creating and sending a transfer transaction with the Lisk Core CLI is displayed below:
// see xref:{url_sdk_cli}[Application CLI] and xref:{url_core_cli}[Lisk Core CLI].
//TODO: Add in above links when SDKv6 and Core docsv4 are released

> NOTE: If you are planning to run the same transaction through a sidechain client, then you can use nearly the same CLI commands as in the general Lisk CLI.
> This can be achieved by just replacing `lisk-core` with `./bin/run`.
> When using the CLI please ensure that the API is enabled over IPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When creating the transaction against a sidechain node, same command (`transaction:create`) can be used. Please replace `lisk-core` with the corresponding application's CLI tool or use `./bin/run` as the CLI tool, when building the application binary from the source code.

When using the CLI please ensure that the API is enabled over IPC.
```

{"transaction":{"module":"token","command":"transfer","fee":"100000000","nonce":"0","senderPublicKey":"0fe9a3f1a21b5530f27f87a414b549e79a940bf24fdf2b2f05e7f22aeeecc86a","signatures":["dcca378fdaa4074e3636b0030764cd3cd5e044832cd2eea124aa4a4143da6f8077671c1294868b614df0e372dccd5ba2705ab512888632d4f43d4e13fe61f40b"],"params":{"tokenID":"0000000000000000","amount":"100000000","recipientAddress":"ab0041a7d3f7b2c290b5b834d46bdc7b7eb85815","data":"\"send token\""},"id":"364b5b273bd3d8c87df6266fd2f1a63bed7553f1bd48cd7f43255f840899032c"}}
$
$
$ ./bin/run   transaction:send 0a05746f6b656e12087472616e7366657218002080c2d72f2a200fe9a3f1a21b5530f27f87a414b549e79a940bf24fdf2b2f05e7f22aeeecc86a32330a0800000000000000001080c2d72f1a14ab0041a7d3f7b2c290b5b834d46bdc7b7eb85815220c2273656e6420746f6b656e223a40dcca378fdaa4074e3636b0030764cd3cd5e044832cd2eea124aa4a4143da6f8077671c1294868b614df0e372dccd5ba2705ab512888632d4f43d4e13fe61f40b
Transaction with id: '364b5b273bd3d8c87df6266fd2f1a63bed7553f1bd48cd7f43255f840899032c' received by node.
$

----

> After all relevant information about the transaction is given, the already encoded transaction object is returned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After all relevant information for the transaction is input, the encoded transaction is returned:
```
or
```suggestion
After all relevant information for the transaction is supplied, the encoded transaction is returned:
```

? Please enter: tokenID:  0400000000000000
? Please enter: amount:  800000000
? Please enter: recipientAddress:  lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj
? Please enter: data:  Happy birthday!
{"transaction":"0a05746f6b656e12087472616e7366657218042080c2d72f2a203972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c32370a080400000000000000108090bcfd021a149bd82e637d306533b1e1ad66e19ca0047faa1a6a220f4861707079206269727468646179213a40c06cd0ef375911528d491971296532dbd58725f0fccc0f23e6c0656c43e75ecd12635616117e64d005f1c9f2a55de7cf2d8f5cb961927d839d141a18faa80e08"}
{"transaction":{"module":"token","command":"transfer","fee":"100000000","nonce":"4","senderPublicKey":"3972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c","signatures":["c06cd0ef375911528d491971296532dbd58725f0fccc0f23e6c0656c43e75ecd12635616117e64d005f1c9f2a55de7cf2d8f5cb961927d839d141a18faa80e08"],"params":{"tokenID":"0400000000000000","amount":"800000000","recipientAddress":"lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj","data":"Happy birthday!"},"id":"f3f537bbd52464d2f97c02f5ef0f9a805d19ad4f8ef1c7efa1da17cef0e5036a"}}
----
=====

> ====

Author: I have commented them out accordingly 👍

}
{
  "transaction": {
    "module": token ,
    "Command": transfer,
    "nonce": "2",
    "fee": "100000000",

>     "senderPublicKey": "e03c09bdc8c023d94cf66a5d352e6258380210d97d545abbf75668ea3736e312",

Reviewer: Same as above. `asset` instead of `params`.

----
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"transaction": "0802100018022080c2d72f2a20e03c09bdc8c023d94cf66a5d352e6258380210d97d545abbf75668ea3736e3123229088094ebdc031214ab0041a7d3f7b2c290b5b834d46bdc7b7eb858151a0b73656e6420746f6b656e733a40faa2626d7306506b1999f48aa2f4b1ffdee01e641fa76d37a9d1d6fd8c225a81065c856ea625c52d138a7e3ba86b62913dc8e5aef8b5e307641ab66e0277a60b"}' \
"http://localhost:9901/api/v3/transactions"
----

> [TIP]

Reviewer: Missing hyperlink text below: `xref:{url_api_service_http}[]`

Also, `transactionId` in the response example must be `transactionID`.

Author: Done 👍

socket.emit('request', {
  jsonrpc: '2.0',
  method: 'post.transactions',
  payload: {"transaction":"0a05746f6b656e12087472616e7366657218042080c2d72f2a203972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c32370a080400000000000000108090bcfd021a149bd82e637d306533b1e1ad66e19ca0047faa1a6a220f4861707079206269727468646179213a40c06cd0ef375911528d491971296532dbd58725f0fccc0f23e6c0656c43e75ecd12635616117e64d005f1c9f2a55de7cf2d8f5cb961927d839d141a18faa80e08

"}
},
  answer => {
    jsome(answer);
    process.exit(0);
});
----

[TIP]
====

> For more information, check out the xref:{url_api_service_rpc}[RPC endpoints (Lisk Service)] reference.

Author: Yes, Now commented out and a TODO added 👍

==== Via the application CLI

Any running node with an enabled API can be used to send a transaction object, see xref:{url_sdk_cli}[Application CLI] and xref:{url_core_cli}[Lisk Core CLI].

An example for sending a transfer transaction with the Lisk Core CLI is displayed below:

[source,bash]
----
$ lisk-core transaction:send 0a05746f6b656e12087472616e7366657218042080c2d72f2a203972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c32370a080400000000000000108090bcfd021a149bd82e637d306533b1e1ad66e19ca0047faa1a6a220f4861707079206269727468646179213a40c06cd0ef375911528d491971296532dbd58725f0fccc0f23e6c0656c43e75ecd12635616117e64d005f1c9f2a55de7cf2d8f5cb961927d839d141a18faa80e08

----

==== Via Lisk API client

An example how to send a transaction via the API client is described in the code snippet below:

Sending a transaction

[source, js]
----
const signedTxSentRes = await apiClient.transaction.send(signedTx);
console.log('Transaction sent response: ', signedTxSentRes);

----

.Example Response
[%collapsible]
====
[source, js]
----
Transaction sent response:  {
	transactionId: '08de6db36628b1f3a7175b1b889f661f9f184afa3df4eeb015698c4ac2de0d38'
}
----
====

> ==== Invoking the action `txpool_postTransaction`

Reviewer 2: It is also possible to send a transaction using the `transaction.send` method so IMHO, we should rename this to something generic like sending via API client, and then add both examples to send a transaction in tabs. The other example can be found here: https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/beta/integrate-blockchain/integrate-UI/faucet-transfer.html

Also hierarchy wise this should be a level 5 heading, same comment for the dry-run heading as well.

const getClient = async () => {
	if (!clientCache) {
		clientCache = await apiClient.createWSClient(RPC_ENDPOINT);
	}
	return clientCache;
};

getClient().then(async (apiClient) => {
	const privateKey = await cryptography.ed.getPrivateKeyFromPhraseAndPath(passphrase, "m/44'/134'/0'");
	const signedTx = await apiClient.transaction.create({
		module: 'token',
		command: 'transfer',
		fee: BigInt(transactions.convertLSKToBeddows('0.01')),
		params: {
			tokenID: Buffer.from('0400000000000000', 'hex'),
			amount: BigInt(transactions.convertLSKToBeddows('8')),
			recipientAddress,
			data: 'Happy birthday!'
		}
	}, privateKey);

	const signedTxHex = await apiClient.transaction.encode(signedTx).toString('hex');

	const signedTxSentRes = await apiClient.invoke("txpool_postTransaction", {
		transaction: signedTxHex,
	});
	console.log('Transaction sent response: ', signedTxSentRes);

	process.exit(0);
});
----

.Example output
[%collapsible]
====
----
Transaction sent response:  {
	transactionId: '08de6db36628b1f3a7175b1b889f661f9f184afa3df4eeb015698c4ac2de0d38'
}
----
====

> ==== `txpool_dryRunTransaction`

Reviewer 2: The section describes `txpool_dryRunTransaction` which is already described [here](https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/beta/api/lisk-node-rpc.html#txpool_dryruntransaction).

On this page, we should mention its usage, via apiClient, CLI, and any other possible medium.

Author: I have added in an explanation to further complement this section 👍

jsome.params.colored = true;

// Use local Service node
const WS_RPC_ENDPOINT = 'ws://localhost:9901/rpc-v3';
//Use public Service node
//const WS_RPC_ENDPOINT = "wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3";

// 2. Connect to Lisk Service via WebSockets

> const socket = io(WS_RPC_ENDPOINT, {

Reviewer: Missing hyperlink text in TIP below (L363): `xref:{url_api_service_rpc}[]`
Same on L370: `xref:{url_sdk_cli}[]`

Author: Done 👍

? Please enter: tokenID:  0400000000000000
? Please enter: amount:  800000000
? Please enter: recipientAddress:  lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj
? Please enter: data:  Happy birthday!
{"transaction":"0a05746f6b656e12087472616e7366657218042080c2d72f2a203972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c32370a080400000000000000108090bcfd021a149bd82e637d306533b1e1ad66e19ca0047faa1a6a220f4861707079206269727468646179213a40c06cd0ef375911528d491971296532dbd58725f0fccc0f23e6c0656c43e75ecd12635616117e64d005f1c9f2a55de7cf2d8f5cb961927d839d141a18faa80e08"}
{"transaction":{"module":"token","command":"transfer","fee":"100000000","nonce":"4","senderPublicKey":"3972849f2ab66376a68671c10a00e8b8b67d880434cc65b04c6ed886dfa91c2c","signatures":["c06cd0ef375911528d491971296532dbd58725f0fccc0f23e6c0656c43e75ecd12635616117e64d005f1c9f2a55de7cf2d8f5cb961927d839d141a18faa80e08"],"params":{"tokenID":"0400000000000000","amount":"800000000","recipientAddress":"lskt8ovj2shbxrtno8xqqt7cnmzzygdkbt6brnvmj","data":"Happy birthday!"},"id":"f3f537bbd52464d2f97c02f5ef0f9a805d19ad4f8ef1c7efa1da17cef0e5036a"}}
----
=====
====

> ==== Lisk Core CLI / Sidechain CLI

Reviewer: Please remove L394-428 (before the `== How to sign a transaction` section begins) since this is no more necessary.

Once connected to the Lisk Core CLI, ensure the network required (either mainnet or testnet) is replaced with the url of the node you wish to establish the connection.
An example of a  how to create a transfer transaction using the `lisk-core transaction:create` command is shown in the snippet below:

[source,js]
----
const { createTransferTransaction } = require('@liskhq/lisk-transactions');
const { getNetworkIdentifier } = require('@liskhq/lisk-utils');
const { FeeEstimator } = require('@liskhq/lisk-client');

const feeEstimator = new FeeEstimator();

const passphrase = 'this is my secret passphrase';
const recipientAddress = 'lsk3wzmwGK3qY8JtYkZdRopDnNfVyj8PbW';
const amount = '100000000';

const networkIdentifier = getNetworkIdentifier('my_network_identifier');
const tx = createTransferTransaction({
    recipientAddress,
    amount,
    passphrase,
    networkIdentifier,
    fee: feeEstimator.calculateFee('transfer'),
});

console.log(JSON.stringify(tx, null, 2));
----

==== Sidechain client CLI

Once you are connected to a Lisk node, you can use the sidechain-client `transaction:create command` to create a new transaction.
// Need code snippet, etc..

> == How to sign a transaction

Reviewer: This entire section can be removed now since all the methods above to create transaction now create signed transactions. Hence, the section is now irrelevant.

A full example how to create and send a transaction via the API client is described in the code snippet below:

> .Creating a transaction

Reviewer: This section is about sending a transaction. Do we need the `Creating a transaction` section again? It's already been explained above on the same page. For user's convenience, we can perhaps set a hyperlink to the relevant section instead?

Author: Good point, it is now removed 👍

[source, js]
----
{
  id: '137f7f67cd55fd246fbe11f733aecc218fbf72d9f3de9c01241bb9dcc4ddaa93'
}
----
====

==== Invoking the action `txpool_postTransaction`

> If the xref:{url_api_node_rpc}[] is enabled on a node, it is possible to send a transaction via WebSockets or IPC, depending on which protocol is enabled in the config.

Reviewer: Missing hyperlink text: `xref:{url_api_node_rpc}[]`

Author: Done 👍

getClient().then(async (client) => {
    const address = cryptography.getAddressFromBase32Address(recipientAddress);
    const tx = await client.transaction.create({
        module: 'token',
        command: 'transfer',
        fee: BigInt(transactions.convertLSKToBeddows('0.01')),

>         asset: {

Reviewer: Same as above: `asset` instead of `params`.

        }
    }, passphrase);

> 	client.invoke("txpool_postTransaction", {

Reviewer: The entire example needs to be validated here, might be incorrect according to the SDKv6.
```suggestion
	client.invoke("txpool_getTransactionsFromPool", {
```

}
----
====

==== `txpool_dryRunTransaction`

> Finally, it is possible to perform a 'Dry run', which returns the results of executing a transaction without actually submitting it to the chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, it is possible to 'dry run' a transaction, which returns the results of executing a transaction without actually submitting it to the chain.
```

Specification::

[cols="1,1,1,3",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Name
|Type
|Description
|Sample

|`transaction`
|string
|Encoded transaction data
|0a040000000212040000000018012080c2d72f2a200fe9a3f1a21b5530f27f87a414b549-
e79a940bf24fdf2b2f05e7f22aeeecc86a32360a08000000000000000010011a1496c2f3c-
d9d9a09814d5f5d4182dc84183ea5abfb22124c6174657374205472616e73616374696f6e-
3a40a77b75083135aa1570e78a64c3f1d40306e3b92498a5fd227a61c40739ba0d1b6f4c7-
d8e274cc8caa16662906698c215eab08833a8005442862786259613ed02

> |===

Reviewer: The `txpool_dryRunTransaction` endpoint also accepts a `skipVerify` boolean flag along with the `transaction` param. We should include the same here.

And, should we add a code snippet here as well, for consistency sake?

Author: Yes, as discussed we will add in the code snippet for consistency 👍

--
.Response
[%collapsible]
====
.Example output
[source,js]
----

> {

Reviewer: This seems like a partial response. Should we include the entire response here?

Author: Yes, as also discussed we will add in the snippet for the entire response here 👍
